**NumFOCUS DISC Committee Meeting**  
06.14.17

**Attendees:**  
Gina Helfrich  
Leah Silen  
Kari Jordan  
Alex Companioni  
Tobi Bosede  
Reshama Shaikh  

**Not Present:**   
Erica Moszkowski  
Manuel Rivas  
Julia Meinwald  
Jennifer Klay  
Igor Steinmacher    

The focus for today's meeting was to review the D&I survey questions that Alex, Erica, and Gina drafted. We will discuss any specific questions that the committee wants to address, as well as determine an appropriate strategy for implementation of the questions into a survey.  

Alex: Few things we tried to emphasize in the questions:
- Better understanding to what degree we’re bringing in a diverse set of attendees
- Diversity takes a lot of dimensions (demographics, experience, industry, toolsets, etc.)
- His personal preference: tried to limit number of free-form answers
 
Gina: Can get good info from qualitative questions, although it's more time-consuming.
 
Alex: Can look at qualitative answers in light of specific cross-sections of answers to quantitative/demographic questions.
 
Kari: Appreciates self-identification approach to gender, ethnicity questions. Add a box that says “please write-in what you mean by that.” (Basically a both-and approach.) There may be groups who self-identify as underrepresented who we don’t even know about.
 
Reshama: Do we have “thank you for participating” language? 
 
Gina: No, but we should draft that language. I can take a first crack and disseminate it for comments.
 
Kari: I can look at it once circulated. From Data Carpentry standpoint, people ask “why are you asking these questions? We should be past this racial/gender stuff.” Explain what the goal is and people will respond.
 
Gina: For a later meeting: discuss question of Review Committees and how to handle review process (removing identifying information vs. being pro-active in selecting for diversity). Questions to consider including in CFP: “Is this your first time submitting a CFP? (or is it:  Is this your first time submitting to this conference?)” -- making explicit that this information won't be part of the decision-making process. "Would you like to receive feedback on why your proposal was not accepted?" for first-time submitters who were rejected (rather than: we've received numerous submissions, and can only pick a limited number).
 
Reshama: Should we ask country, nationality -- what if people interpret the “underrepresented” question differently? [Country of residence question was added.]

Tobi: I think the question is reasonably-posed as is; we can sit on it. 
 
Gina: Should we keep or separate demographics & inclusiveness? Concern re: anonymity being compromised.
 
Kari: As part of introductory language, let them know what the info will be used for, that it’s optional, that they can skip any question they don’t feel comfortable answering. 
 
Alex: I think that’s a great way to let people take the option to decide how much or little personal info to provide.
 
Reshama:  We’ll be clear at the beginning whether survey is anonymous or not.

To discuss at next meeting: Sharing questions to other conferences; open-sourcing the survey and sharing results; concerns re: conveying how widely this data will be shared and with whom, anonymized to what extent.
 
  
---
  
**NumFOCUS DISC Committee Meeting**  
04.26.17

**Attendees:**  
Gina Helfrich (NumFOCUS Communications Director; DISC Program Mgr.)  
Leah Silen  
Alex Companioni (Data Scientist at IHeartRadio; in Miami; Cuban heritage)  
Tobi Bosede (Grad student at Johns Hopkins in Applied Math & Statistics; moving back to NY to be a Machine Learning engineer at Capital One; was active PyLadies NYC organizer; volunteered for Black Girls Code)  
Reshama Shaikh (Data Scientist @ Metis; organizes NY WiMLDS)  
Erica Moszkowski (Research Analyst, Fed. Bank of NY; Economics PhD in fall @ Harvard Business School, Diversity Chair @JuliaCon)  

**Not Present:**   
Manuel Rivas (Asst. Prof. Biomedical Data Science @ Stanford)
Julia Meinwald (Two Sigma—new member as of April)  
Kari Jordan (Deputy Dir. Assessment for Data Carpentry)  
Jennifer Klay (Prof. of Physics @ Cal Poly SLO, NumFOCUS Board of Directors)  
Igor Steinmacher  
Christine Doig  


Agenda  

1. Brief Re-Introductions
2. Tasks

a) Compile list of existing research and resources (we have a strong list already)
- Gina, Erica 

b) Design PyData experiments (different tactics at different conferences; compare)
- Reshama

Postpone until data collection methodology is decided.

c) Draft survey for PyData attendees (need to craft questions for assessment purposes)

Goal is to develop a model of what the barriers are and the channels causing those barriers. Collecting data, summary statistics, theoretical model, etc. Year 1 focus is data collection.  

- What demographics will we track?
- What qualitative info do we want to know?
- Pre- and post-surveys?

Erica: We could run a survey as part of JuliaCon (Jun 20-24, 2017). What do we want to learn from the survey? Designing survey questions is difficult, let’s start with the bigger picture. 

Reshama:  I can ask PyGotham organizers if they would like to participate.  (should be Summer 2017). 

Demographics: we want to know who is in attendance.
- Did attendees feel comfortable, welcome?
- Would attendees want to return, would they recommend it to others?
- If you wouldn’t want to return or recommend, why not?
- What would make the conference more welcoming, inviting?
- Checklist? Which of the following things would be important for you to see at an event/want to take part in. Diversity events, childcare, ESL translation, specific policies, etc.
- Why did you decide to come to this conference?
- Were your goals/expectations met?
- What other conferences / meetups / organizations do you participate in?
- Did you submit to the CFP? Why/why not?
- Is this your first event/technology event/professional/open source conference?
- Did you receive financial support to come to this event? Would you have been able to come if you didn’t?

Erica: Survey responses are selective by people who attend and people who don’t. Of those who come, only some will respond.

Alex: For lazy survey-takers, keep it brief enough not to discourage people from answering. 

Erica: Not more than 7 min.

Alex: 5-10 min.

Tobi: Questions that can be checkboxes instead of text.

Gina: Gender questions use an open text box ideally.

Tobi: How to incentivize responses? When people register, we get some data. Esp. if when I registered I also applied for financial assistance. For experimental design, consider some things. Make sure we’re not only getting responses from people who had a great time.

Erica: There’s data that we want to collect, but we deliberately made people reveal minimal info about themselves. This year they deliberately did not have people give their gender to make it more welcoming (don’t have to out yourself, etc.). Most important thing is to get the right people to the conference.

Tobi: Yes, there’s the idea of gathering minimal information to not make people uncomfortable, but there are always ways to balance need for info w/need for comfort of attendees. Don’t have to respond, make it optional. For attendees, more important to feel comfortable when you get there than for registration process to be comfortable. Why word of mouth, etc. is so important. Having a question about gender won’t turn off someone if the product (conference experience) comes highly recommended. What’s the main goal of the different events that occur at a conference and which take precedent. What attracts & retains a diverse population?

Leah: I agree.

Reshama:  we cannot understand we cannot measure.  If we don’t know our current diversity statistics, we won’t know if what we’re doing is working.

Erica: 100% agree with can’t understand what can’t measure. We’ll never be able to measure particularly well demographic composition of entire online community. To some extent, conference question e.g. how many women, hard to analyze if you don’t know if it’s proportional to the population.

Alex: Segmenting by gender responses, can pull a number of important things. Not just gender, financial support, whether goals & expectations were met, etc. Re: gender, may not have a global benchmark, but do have the possibility of longitudinal data. Can ask over any number of PyData conferences. 

Tobi: What should registration process look like? What information should we glean from registrants? To Erica’s point, be mindful of users’ comfort levels, not scaring anyone off with weird questions. Things that are pretty standard; we know what that looks like. We’re also trying to be intentional and make sure registrants actually come, and then actually fill out the survey. Start to finish intentionally designing so the data we get is useful to answer the Q’s we have in an unbiased way.

Leah: Moore Foundation Kit is going to be used across all open source/data science events. These are suggested questions for your registration that can provide valuable input engaging your success on diversity & inclusion. In order to use JuliaCon, that’s in June. We would need to put together the survey fairly quickly to include that. 

Erica: Would be great to send a survey immediately following the conference. Other thing to note, logistically, people who collect registration might not be the same as those who complete it. 

Gina will work w/Erica to build a post-survey for JuliaCon and map out questions to be included within registration. Loop in Alex and the three of us discuss.

Week of May 22nd for next meeting.

Census considers new approach to asking about race – by not using the term at all
http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2015/06/18/census-considers-new-approach-to-asking-about-race-by-not-using-the-term-at-all/




---

**NumFOCUS DISC Committee First Meeting**  
(Diversity & Inclusion in Scientific Computing)       
03.28.17  

**Attendees:**
- Gina Helfrich (NumFOCUS Communications Director; DISC Program Mgr.) 
- Kari Jordan (Deputy Dir. Assessment for Data Carpentry)
- Erica Moszkowski (Research Analyst, Fed. Bank of NY; graduate school in fall @ Harvard Business School, Diversity Chair @JuliaCon)
- Reshama Shaikh (Data Scientist @ Metis; organizes NY WiMLDS)
- Manuel Rivas (Asst. Prof. Biomedical Data Science @ Stanford)
- Jennifer Klay (Prof. of Physics @ Cal Poly SLO, NumFOCUS Board of Directors)

**Not Present:** 
- Tobi Bosede 
- Alex Companioni 
- Igor Steinmacher
- Christine Doig

**Agenda**

1. Brief Introductions


2. Goals for the Moore Foundation 2-year DISC grant:
    - production of a scalable kit that can be disseminated to events to help promote best diversity and inclusion practices (including distribution plan)
    - assessment of current diversity programs at NumFOCUS
    - identify best diversity practices and challenges, plus suggestions for new programs
    - creation of initiatives including programs to increase the diversity of project contributors

3. Overview of past NF diversity initiatives
    - Scholarships to PyData, other conferences (SciPy, LSST, AstroPy workshop, etc.)
    - CFP outreach (primarily to local organizations promoting UR’d groups, @callbackwomen etc)
    - Local conference committees tasked with creating diverse line-up for keynotes, invited talks
    - Local conference committees tasked with making sure their membership and review committee is diverse
    - Local workshops for high school girls on how to code/intro to data science

4. Discussion: What do we mean when we say “diversity?”

Jennifer: OSS & Coding community is pretty homogenous, so any expansion of people who haven’t been traditionally well-represented.   
Kari: What do we mean by events? (Gina: Moore Found. wants to distribute to all their communities for diverse & inclusive events)  
Erica: Different OS communities have different norms & people from different backgrounds. E.g. career-changers, women of color, etc.  
Jennifer: Bringing people from broader academic prep backgrounds into coding & data science.   
Manuel: Community has an opportunity to make it obvious to others that you can do computing almost anywhere in the world... Resources you have to start with shouldn’t be a reason to keep you from the community. E.g. lower socio-economic status communities  
Erica: Yes, that’s part of the reason we do Open Source (reduces costs, barriers to access)  
Manuel: Data availability across many domains. E.g. rich biomedical or social network data  
Reshama: How do we measure diversity? Do we have statistics for NF conferences? Increasing diversity at conferences or the general scientific community or going to the pipeline?  
Gina: Diversity on the basis of typical privilege/oppression dynamics (socio-economic, dis/ability, race, gender, sexual identity, etc.) Also challenge of even collecting data in a responsible way.  
Erica (?): Make sure we’re making connections/relationships with conferences and events to support our testing efforts.  
Erica: What does research mean? Does it mean we have a model of what the barriers are and the channels causing those barriers? Can imagine collecting data, summary statistics, theoretical model, etc.  
Gina: We could conduct research at different degrees of rigor.  
Erica: Research for Year 1 focus should be data collection. Can we generate summary statistics and a menu of different barriers based on what we’ve observed. Could we run our own survey (e.g. at PyData)? Ask about not just who they are but also about participation in OS Community, more free-form responses, inquire about barriers faced, etc. Esp. w/ability to compare similarly-run conferences in different places.  
Gina: Yes, we can put PyData resources and data-collection possibilities behind this effort.  
Reshama: re first year = data collection; have almost a prospectus study where one PyData city (e.g. NYC) could have certain methods that are less conventional. Example if the goal is 50% women, reach out to various communities of women and asking them to participate and submit proposals. 2nd: Whole process of submitting to conferences is very well outline on e.g. O’Reilly page, but maybe for underrepresented folks the process needs to be different. Maybe the process needs to be different to attract more diverse participants. 3rd: Could do it for one city and not another to measure impact: invite a woman you’d like to see speak, participate, attend (to male participants) and see what results.  
Erica: Does anyone have exp. running experiments?  
Reshama: Has run clinical trials.  
Gina: Has done qualitative research, could lend that to analyzing PyData survey.  
Reshama: Can think of two people we could interview. CODE: Debugging the Gender Gap — was shown at Meetup headquarters; some of the engineers in the film work there. Have been able to hire a lot more female engineers. Read blog on founder of Meetup’s efforts to diversify company. Also knows data scientist at H20 in SF; if you really want to hire more women, it has to be a priority and can work.   
Gina: Has resources/list to contribute to the survey of available research; Igor (not present) hopefully can also help re: barriers to OS participation.  
Reshama comments to chat window:  
Here's the blog:  
https://backchannel.com/how-meetup-ditched-its-boys-club-4a3a3084e72f  
We can also identify Men Who are "Advocates of Women"  
Reshama: Once we define “diversity” for the group, perhaps start with one group and try to increase for that group, or aim at all groups? Define some strategy for that.  
Erica:  What do you mean by group?  
Reshama: Gender, race, sexual identity, whether we want to try for all at once or start with one and expand it to other groups, etc.  

* How to collaborate?
  - Shared google docs (hosted @ NF)
  - Slack for conversation and ideas (NF can host it)

* What are next steps?
  - [x] Gina will add members to Slack
  - [x] Gina will create GitHub file with roadmap
  - [x] Gina will create Google Docs for PyData survey + experiments
  - [x] Gina will create Google Doc for list of existing research, resources
  - [x] Establish near-term task list, ask everyone to self-sign up on what they want to contribute to



**Proposed Roadmap, Year 1:**
- April-June 
    1. Compile and collate relevant research and existing data on diversity in open source and scientific computing communities (Include assessment of current/past NF initiatives)
    2. Summarize barriers to collection of accurate data (Gina will give a talk on this subject at PyData Seattle)
- July-September
  1. Analyze research + data to identify barriers to full participation, gaps in research
  2. Formulate strategy to tackle barriers to collection of accurate data
- October-December
  1. Conduct research to fill any major gaps in understanding participation, barriers to participation
  2. Develop initial list of best practices (proven and/or untested)
  3. Devise rollout method for testing best practices
    Ensure we are communicating with conferences available for that.
- January-March
  1. Conduct best practices test(s)
  2. Collect & analyze results
  3. Revise best practices list as-needed
  4. Publish summary of research and findings
