# June, 2022 - DISC Committee Meeting agenda

## Details

| <!-- -->    | <!-- -->    |
|-----------|---|
| üìÖ - Date | June 30, 2022 |
| üôãüèΩ‚Äç‚ôÄÔ∏è - Attendees | Tania Allard, Mariana Meireles, Tereza Iofciu, Noa Tamir, Ana Ruvalcaba, Mark Mikofski, Melissa Mendon√ßa, Arliss, Katrina Riehl, Leah  (10/10 members) |
| üí¨ - Chair in-session | Tania Allard  |
| üìù - Secretary | Mark Mikofski  |
| ‚úÖ - Minutes approval date | July 28, 2022  |

A regular meeting of the DISC Committee was held over Group Conference Call via phone and Internet Relay Chat/Slack beginning at 2:00 UTC, on March 22, 2022. Tania Allard took notes/minutes.

All votes are reported in the form **Y-N-A** (*in favor-Y‚Äöopposed-N‚Äöabstentions-A*; e.g. "5-1-2" means "5 in favour, 1 opposed, and 2 abstentions").

## New business

* [Secretary](#secretary)
* [Committee meeting schedule](#committee-meeting-schedule)
* [DISC Unconference](#disc-unconference)
* [DISC Cookbook](#working-group---discover-cookbook-revamp)
* [NF CoC](#coc)

## Discussions
[June 2022 - DISC Committee Meeting Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TI0xa1afsj_dXnGsEqRC4WYwVY-jQ_-hRi3OYmo549s/edit#)

### Secretary

* Mark Mikofski nominates himself
* RESOLVED, that the DISC committee approve appointment of Mark as Secretary
    * Approved 6-0-1

### Committee meeting schedule

* should we alternate slots or keep this time Thursdays, 6PM GMT?
* Tania decided we'll keep this time for now

### DISC UnConference
* [planning kickstart](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1t-00Q27QGK_8KxgniQT_iX66YAqf8o3dx9zj2jCz0qs/edit#) document was shared
* location of conference to be outside of the USA and potentially co-located with PyData?
    * does it need to be colocated with PyData?
    * Europe is very expensive
    * could it be in the global south?
* Arliss to follow up RE: UnConference grant and ask if we can change the location ideally to a Global South location
* Assembly an organizing committee volunteers:
    * Melissa Mendon√ßa
    * Ana
    * Tania 
    * Noa - limited availability but can help

### Working Group - Discover cookbook revamp
* current [DISCOVER Cookbook](https://github.com/numfocus/DISCOVER-Cookbook)
* review & refresh existing content
* add recommendations for online & hybrid content
* add access-centered recommendations
* templates, surveys, ...
* other resource - https://rconf.gitlab.io/userknowledgebase/dev/ 
* assemble working group, Noa volunteered to lead
    * Mark
    * Tania (limited availability but can help)
    * Tereza

### CoC

* Could we use some of our budget to hire Otter consulting https://otter.technology/code-of-conduct-training/ ?
* should also consider CoC training
* Katrina would be happy to champion or move this forward
* Separate topic: code of conduct committee - should be treated as a separate topic that falls outside the scope of DISC

* Katrina made a plea for DISC to help the formation of a CoC response committee
    * Currently CoC complaints are directed to Katrina and Leah.
    * What happens if a complaint is filed against Katrina? How would handle COI?
* Melissa, no quorum now.

    1. We can work on improving CoC. 
    2. we can form a CoC committee

* these are 2 separate things
* Tereza, agree, in PSF CoC group.
    * Group creation is difficult.
    * Should be volunteers.
    * Important to avoid COI, should be impartial
* Tania: can we use DISC budget to revamp NF CoC, provide training
* Discuss via email

## Minutes of past meetings

Minutes from prior meeting May 24, 2022:

RESOLVED, that the DISC committee approve the minutes at [`committee/public-meeting-minutes/2022-05-24-monthly-meeting.md`](./2022-05-24-monthly-meeting.md) as representing a true and accurate record of the May 24, 2022 meeting.

Approved, 5-0-1

## Committee reports for June

### Melissa Weber Mendon√ßa
* [Community] - Ongoing maintenance of NUMFOCUS sponsored and affiliate projects

### Tania Allard 
* [Community] - Keynote PyData London
* [Community] - Ongoing maintenance of NUMFOCUS sponsored and affiliate projects
* [Community] - Governance-related work for the new Jupyter accessibility software subproject
* [DISC] - Onboarded new DISC members 
* [DISC] - Organisation, discussions, and planning for upcoming DISC-related tasks and initiatives

### Tereza Iofciu
* Nothing to report

### Ana Ruvalcaba
* [Community] I will be at SciPy in Austin. If anyone is participating I would love to say hi and meet in person. Email me or @mention me on Slack to  connect.

### Noa Tamir
* [Community] - Ongoing contribution to NUMFOCUS sponsored projects
* [DISC] - Organization for June meeting, and discussions for upcoming initiatives

### Rachel Malbin
* Nothing to report

### Mark Mikofski
* Nothing to report

### Mariana Meireles
[Community] - I‚Äôve been discussing with folks from the Python and Anaconda ecosystem‚Äôs about the ideas on building a paid internship program

### Katrina Riehl (NumFOCUS board member)
* Nothing to report

### Arliss Collins (NumFOCUS staff)
* Nothing to report


Meeting adjourned at 7:07 PM GMT
